talk about yourself

Hey, it’s Seth again! If you don’t know me, check out some other posts. This is a quick blog about how I focused on my college essays and how I would advise others to do as well.

Here’s an example:

My name is Seth. Both of my parents are Mexican immigrants. My mom moved when I was 15. Years later, she went back to Mexico where she met my dad. Together, they came to the US and started my family. I am the fourth child, of eight children to my parents.

Growing up, I moved around the world because my dad is in the US Army. I’ve lived in Nebraska, Italy, Alaska, Germany, and Tennessee. From this, I’ve learned about culture. I’ve learned about the differences in the US and other countries and the importance of diverse backgrounds. From this, I’ve learned about loss. I’ve learned about being the new kid and having to reset each time I move.

This writing was pretty quick (done on a plane) and not edited. It does resemble a lot of my essays, but give it grace lol. That being said, I want to point out a few key things that I do.

1 - I get into the meat of the story a little quickly. For a lot of college applications, you’re working with relatively small word limits. It might seem like a lot when you’re writing, but a 500 or 800-word personal statement is much shorter than the average biography. So, cut to the meat. Give important background and dive in.

2 - I’m building a characterization of myself. I'm doing it in 2 ways, words said and thoughts implied. I mention my parents being immigrants, but I don’t say too much about this. People kinda know. You can go in-depth here (and that’s made awesome essays!) but for me, I decided to focus less on this. Instead, I focus on moving. There’s also a deliberate ordering choice. I begin with my parents’ background, then my family size, then moving. I want people to be conscious of the preceding factors. Is it harder to move around or move around with 8 siblings? While this could be up for debate, you might imagine the stress of 8 children in an airport. You might also imagine (if you know about military deployments) the stress of 8 children to one parent. Big picture, my description builds on itself

3 - I use simple language. This is MY (emphasis on my. Double emphasis so you get it) preferred writing style. To me, adding some “choppy” sentences and writing this way comes across more conversationally and allows for deep insight without getting lost in wordiness. THIS IS PERSONAL PREFERENCE. I include this point to note that it was deliberate. I chose to do this. When it comes to writing for college, it’s all your) choice. Please choose instead of doing something accidentally

If you found this helpful, please share it with others and look on our website for other posts and resources. If you have questions or comments, let me down below. I’d love to hear what you think!

Thanks,
Seth

If you are more interested in learning about AccessPoint's initial goal, check out [my 1st post](/blog/why-access-point)
Here is my most [recent post on talking about yourself in essays](/blog/talk-about-yourself)
