Hey, it’s Seth again! I am currently in Italy on a train from Venezia to Verona with MIT and I was thinking about this email I got a while back. MIT has an orientation event where incoming freshmen have the opportunity to write an email that will be sent to them at the end of the first year. I was clearing my email the other day when I saw it and it made me think. I’ve added it below (with some edits) and want to share a couple thoughts.

Dear Future Me,
Hi! It’s May 30, 2024. I just finished finals week and my first year at MIT. Time flies! Let me tell you about the year that I just had.
I hope you’ve done well. Im wondering what kind of position you’re in right now.
Are you going to a summer internship?
Did you stick with course 20 [bioengineering] or has that changed?
Are you feeling happy at mit?
Have I been calling home every week?
Did I become a blogger and inspire people the same way I was inspired when I read through the blogs?
What clubs have you joined?
How are your friends?
How did you do in your classes?
You’ve always wanted your people. That’s why the JKC letter was so powerful. Did you find them? Did you find your home?
This is supposed to be a letter to the future, but I don’t have a lot to say to you. I kinda just wish I could hear from you.
I wish I could hear that classes will go well. I might struggle but I’ll get there eventually.
I wish I could hear that I’ll learn to balance staying fit with an mit schedule.
I wish I could hear that I’ll be a good brother and son and stay in contact with my family.
I wish I could hear that I made the most of my first year of college.
I wish I could hear that my future seems more visible, that the foggy path has cleared a little.
I wish I could hear that I really love myself. I wish I could hear that I’ve gotten over some of my anxieties and fears.
I wish I could hear that I figured out a backflip. I don’t know why I can’t do it.
I wish I could hear that my body is healthy. I wish I could hear that my mind is too.
I wish I could hear that everything is going to be okay.
I wish I could hear that everything is going to be alright.
I think this is supposed to be a moment of exploration in my future, but that’s not my main concern. I’ve already thought about that a lot. I hope you get to think about it though.
How far did I come?
How far do I think I can go?
You’re much further than me, so let me know.

When I wrote this, I was clearly a little anxious about starting MIT. Although I have always felt smart, I knew that MIT would not be as simple or as easy as high-school. I also felt that I hadn’t really struggled in school since my sophomore year.

The point being - I was nervous.

Even after getting into MIT. I was nervous about classes, how I would do in comparison to others. What professors would think of me. While I struggled at first, I got used to it. I’m doing great now. Sometimes you just have to trust the process and lock in.

I was pretty nervous about my physical health, which was for a pretty good reason. I haven’t worked out as much as I used to. That being said, I’m stronger and run more frequently. I’ve done fine, I just needed to be consistent.

I was also nervous about my self esteem and general anxiety. For many of these questions, the answer is yes. I found my people. I see the future more clearly (I’m hoping to get a PHD someday). I can tell myself that I’ve gotten over a lot of my fears and anxieties. I didn’t join some things I wanted to (no blogger for me) and I joined some I never thought I would (I didn’t see a frat coming ngl).

Right now, I feel like I’m on a small peak. I can see I’ve come far. I can see the stressing over classes, managing a loaded schedule, managing strict (ish) parents, and much more. It was a lot. But I'm here now. I’m fine. I’m great. You can do it too. Just remember to keep climbing.

Seth Robles, MIT 2027
